---
title: Since this
date: 2024-12-01 19:45:26 Z
categories:
- linkedin
tags:
- linkedin
layout: post
description: Since this
featured: false
activity_id: 7269074134704271360
---

Since this is a "work" platform, let me share a brilliant piece of work.

Forensic Architecture has released interactive spatio-temporal map with almost 2.000 incidents, accompanied by comprehensive 827 page report documenting Israeli attacks on Gaza since October 2, 2023. Through evidence-based spatial and pattern analysis, the report demonstrates that these attacks are systematic and organized, not random, with recurring patterns targeting civilians.

- Spatial control: 36% of Gaza has been reshaped through the destruction of agricultural lands and buildings to establish permanent military infrastructure.
- Displacement: 84% of Gaza was subjected to evacuation orders, forcing civilians into “humanitarian zones” that were often attacked shortly after.
- Destruction of agriculture and water resources: 70% of Gaza’s farmland, 83% of its vegetation, and 45% of its greenhouses have been destroyed.
- Destruction of civil infrastructure: Critical infrastructure, including health facilities, schools, and government buildings, was severely damaged, with 75% of schools attacked.
- Targeting of humanitarian aid: Over 300 attacks targeted humanitarian workers and infrastructure, disrupting aid delivery and harming those seeking assistance.

Source: https://lnkd.in/d-RVrQEJ

#FreePalestine #FreeGaza

https://media.licdn.com/dms/image/v2/D4D22AQGnEx2iHaUWQg/feedshare-shrink_2048_1536/feedshare-shrink_2048_1536/0/1733082325963?e=1736380800&v=beta&t=RpOR6SNVL8N7AMVke75n1SnOrwPD047j3srU9OCKIK8